LiFF Light Field Feature Toolbox v0.0.1
Copyright (C) 2019, Donald G. Dansereau

This is an implementation of the light field feature detector and descriptor from the paper:

[1] D.G. Dansereau, B. Girod, and G. Wetzstein, "LiFF: Light Field Features in Scale and Depth", ArXiV preprint (todo)

The functionality closely mirrors the SIFT feature detector and descriptor, but exploits information in the light field to deliver more robust and informative features. This works by searching for features with well-defined scale, as in SIFT, but also with well-defined depth, which manifest as slope in the light field. This rejects more spurious features, detects partially occluded features, and builds descriptors with greater immunity to partial occlusions, noise, and higher-order light transport effects. It also delivers a per-feature depth (slope) estimate.

Usage closely mirrors the VLFeat Library, and the code builds directly on the VL_SIFT implementation in VLFeat v0.9.21. Much of the extensive documentation and tutorial material for SIFT features at http://www.vlfeat.org/ also applies to LiFF.


---General usage---
LiFF_PathSetup.m - add the LiFF light field feature toolbox to MATLAB's path -- it may be convenient to add this to your startup.m file

LiFF_ExtractFeatures.m: the main function for detecting and describing features


---Demos---
Download the sample light fields https://dgd.vision/Tools/LiFF and extract into the SampleScenes folder, then run the demos:

LiFF_DemoSimple.m: simple usage example

LiFF_DemoColMapOut.m: A more complex example including output for use with the COLMAP structure-from-motion tool, and manual control over feature detection parameters

LiFF_DemoFocalStack.m: Demonstrates use of the LiFF focal stack implementation


---Building---
The release includes prebuilt binaries for Windows and Linux, and the demo should run out of the box.

To rebuild the mex binary files from source, use the make_*.m scripts.


---Resources---
Further example light fields are available at lightfields.stanford.edu.

Additional tools for working with light field fields are available at github.com/doda42/LFToolbox.


---Contributing / Feedback---
Suggestions, bug reports, code improvements and new functionality are welcome -- email Donald.Dansereau+LFToolbox {at} gmail dot com.


---Acknowledgements---
Based on code from the VLFeat library v0.9.21
Copyright (C) 2007-11, Andrea Vedaldi and Brian Fulkerson
Copyright (C) 2012-13, The VLFeat Team
See COPYING.txt


---Citing---
The appropriate citation for LiFF light field features is:

@inproceedings{todo}

